title: End of Winter House assessment
date: 2022-03-07
tags: heating, interior, doors, weather, solar

NOTE: I found this post that was supposed to go up onto the site back in the start of March while I was preparing a June update. I never finished it but there is some interesting stuff in here that I'd like to document.  A full start-of-June post is in the works and will have some photo updates.

~~~

It feels like winter is winding down. Although it is hard to say whether that is really the case or not since the forecast shows the temperature plunging again in a few days and snow showers are in the mix.  The roads have decided it is spring though and I have passed cars stuck up their axles in mud along our road. The freeze thaw cycle is whipsawing too quickly for the dirt roads to "set up" and every day we end up with a bog on the stretches between our driveway and both ends of the road. If the temperature stays relatively stable and dry (fat chance) we may end up with driveable roads in a week or so.  As it is currently pouring rain, this is not likely to happen. 

As things warm up it also gives us a chance to evaluate how the new house survived the coldest winter months. Overall, I would rate the house very highly for most winter days.  The house was mostly heated with a single heat pump register in the kitchen area.  On the coldest winter nights (-30F), supplementing that with a small ceramic space heater in the biggest open space and putting the water heater in "electric" mode seemed to do the trick.  We built fires fairly frequently on those cold, gray days to take the edge off of the chill but it was more often done for the aesthetics of sitting in a cozy house watching the snow come down with a fire burning.  The fire wasn't a necessity and, I suspect, the fireplace was the biggest culprit of cold air ingress in the entire house. 

Efficiency Vermont came a couple of months ago (see previous entries) and we got the check from them based on their evaluation of our systems and efficiency numbers.  Judging from the size of the check, the house did well.  I am still waiting for the written assessment that they provide so that we can understand what may need to change before next winter arrives.

The ERV kept the house at a minimum of 40% humidity during the winter which is quite good. Things never felt too dry like it used to in houses in PA we used to live in with forced hot air heat. The time and dry air has caused a fair amount of shrinkage which has resulted in wood joints separating and plaster and paint cracking in places.  The ash hardwood floors upstairs have separated in areas, mostly on the stairs. It isn't enough to be the first thing you see but, as we see them every day, I definitely notice it.  I am trying to not really worry about it until we see how the damp spring with no heaters running re-expands the wood.  Wood breathes with humidity so going through a few seasons makes sense before I make an assesssment there.  There are cracks along some door frames where the natural movement of the doors has opened up a few gaps but they might do with some vinyl caulk that adds some shock resistance and stretchiness. 

The biggest issue with the house was the radon pipe that goes up through our chimney enclosure, through the attic and out the roof. Apparently there was some bad routing of that pipe as it made its way through the attic and, as the condensation cycles proceeded through the winter, that pipe collected ice at its lowest point which wasn't running at a proper angle. Because of the ice, the pipe cracked. I assume this happened all during the coldest months but, as we hit the warm patch recently, all of that ice started melting into the attic insulation and, one morning while drinking coffee and enjoying the nice warm sun, we heard a fateful drip-drip-drip.  We called our builder who came over right away and diagnosed the issue and hauled out 200lbs of wet insulation.  He then installed all new pipes and let the wood ceiling dry before putting all new insulation in. It has now been months and the wood ceiling is fine (what a relief). 

 
